nuclear energy creates an uneasy feeling
of danger for many people
ancient and dangerous minerals are
concentrated to awaken seemingly
unnatural powers
creating horribly toxic elements that if
they escape
can and have killed people in horrible
ways how many people has nuclear energy
killed
and how
[Music]
nuclear energy has been a thing since
and since then there have been around 30
reported accidents globally
most of them were pretty minor compared
to the two disasters everybody is
familiar with
fukushima and chernobyl chernobyl
is undoubtedly the worst nuclear
accident in history for a number of
reasons
the reactor technology was old and
ill-prepared for emergencies
and the government response was slow and
more concerned about
image than damage control still only 31
people died directly in the accident
but what makes nuclear energy scary is
not reactors blowing up
but the radiation they release so the
real question is how many deaths
through cancer and other diseases will
chernobyl cause
here things get really complicated
because you dip right into controversy
and just discussing the different
estimates and how they were calculated
deserves a video of its own the most
pessimistic estimate comes from a study
commissioned by the european
green party and projects up to 60 000
premature deaths by the year 2065.
most scientific studies come up with
numbers much lower than this
the who has estimated that in total the
long-term death
toll will be around four thousand while
the un scientific committee on the
effects of atomic radiation
concluded that even this figure could be
too high for more details on this
check our research document the second
big nuclear accident was fukushima
daiichi
in 2011. fukushima did not only operate
with much better technology
that was less dangerous in the first
place much better security measures were
in place
and the official response was fast and
decisive
and so the current death toll is only
573.
the major difference here is that these
deaths were not a consequence of
radiation
they were indirect deaths from the
stress of the evacuation of the areas
around the reactors
and occurred almost entirely in older
populations
estimates of the possible long-term
deaths from radiation vary widely
from none at all to about one thousand
in terms of the other long-term
consequences
an increase in thyroid cancer in
children has been observed
but according to the who this is related
to the increased screening rate
by 2018 there had been only one
confirmed death among workers as a
result of radiation-induced lung cancer
now let's compare this to renewable
energy
solar wind and geothermal energy
basically only cause deaths
as a result of construction and
maintenance accidents
unfortunately their current share of
global energy is pretty low
the major player in renewable energy is
hydropower
which mostly means building dams and
letting water flow through turbines
from a higher elevation to a lower
elevation in total
hydro has been the most fatal in terms
of accidents
with hundreds of thousands of deaths in
the last half century
one accident clearly stands out the 1975
bangko hydroelectric dam failure in
china which has
striking similarities to chernobyl old
technology
poor design and poor management by
authoritarian governments
concerned about appearances in a
nutshell a massive typhoon
triggered intense flooding that
destroyed the dam and
subsequently a number of smaller dams in
a chain reaction
unleashing a flood of over 15 billion
cubic meters of water in total
kilometer wide waves as high as
buildings devastated thousands of square
kilometers of countryside
and countless communities all in all the
death toll from just this one accident
and its direct consequences
is estimated to lie between 85 000 to
000 but all of these deaths caused by
nuclear and renewable energy
are actually negligible in comparison to
the real killer energy source
fossil fuel the most widely used source
of energy
and electricity when we burn fossil
fuels to heat up water
and make turbines spin or to cause mini
explosions to move cars with internal
combustion engines
gases like ozone sulfur dioxide carbon
monoxide
and nitrogen dioxide are released into
the atmosphere
breathing in these gases disrupts lung
function which aggravates chronic
conditions like asthma and bronchitis
and causes a wide range of respiratory
and cardiovascular diseases
but even more dangerous is the fine
particle pollution burning fossil fuels
causes
a mixture of solid and liquid droplets
of poisonous substances
as small as 2.5 microns in diameter
they easily find their way deep into
your lungs and increase the risk of
deadly diseases like
lung cancer stroke and heart disease
fossil fuel related air pollution is the
number one cause of environmental
related deaths in the world
according to the who it accounts for 29
of all cases of lung cancer 17 percent
of deaths from acute lower respiratory
infection
24 from stroke 25 from ischemic heart
disease
and 43 from chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease
all in all outside air pollution adds up
to the deaths of 4 million people each
year
what makes air pollution especially
problematic and sinister
is the fact that the damage it causes
happens very gradually
which makes it hard for our brains that
didn't evolve with
subtle dangers in mind to realize the
scope of the problem
collectively air pollution from fossil
fuels is estimated to have killed around
100 million people in the past 50 years
but wait is that really fair fossil
fuels also provide
over 80 percent of global energy so it
makes sense that they cause the most
deaths
so let's compare deaths per energy unit
deaths per energy unit produce a few
studies have compared the death rates
from different energy sources per
one terawatt hour that's about the
annual energy consumption of
27 000 eu citizens or 12
600 u.s citizens to produce that much
energy for one year
coal causes 25 deaths oil causes 18
and natural gas 3. renewable energy
causes one death every few decades
and nuclear in the worst case nuclear
energy would cause
one death every 14 years one study even
found that nuclear energy actually saved
2 million lives between 1971 and 2009
by displacing fossil fuels from the
global energy mix
the numbers are clear even when using
wildly pessimistic numbers
nuclear energy is among the safest forms
of energy generation
and at a time when we're struggling to
slow down rapid climate change
it's a really valuable low carbon option
however
all these facts still leave one major
argument that is fielded against nuclear
power
opponents of nuclear energy argue that
nuclear waste and its lack of long-term
storage solutions
is an unacceptable problem and risk
while proponents of nuclear energy
say that until renewable energies are
able to cover the complete energy
demands of mankind
it's arguably safer to store nuclear
waste for the time being
than to inhale poisonous gases and
promote rapid climate change
but a detailed discussion about nuclear
waste would go too far here
more about it in our sources let us know
if you'd like a whole video about it
so looking at the comparative death
rates it's a bit concerning that some
countries are replacing nuclear energy
with fossil fuels
mostly coal especially germany and japan
have been the most
active in dismantling their nuclear
fleet in a ploy to appease the public
the german government shut down 11 of
its 17 nuclear facilities
and plans to close the remaining
reactors in 2022
the immediate gap in energy production
was filled by temporarily increasing
coal production
the energy source with the largest
health impacts and the worst
consequences for climate change
a 2019 analysis concluded that as a
consequence
the nuclear phase-out has led to 1 100
avoidable deaths per year in germany
due to the increased air pollution in
the years after 2010
so in conclusion nuclear energy feels
way more dangerous than it actually is
no matter how you look at it the one
thing we should strive to get rid of as
quickly as possible
of fossil fuels to prevent the deaths
they cause each year
and to slow down climate change
regardless of how much you personally
care about climate change issues
or which energy source you favor saving
millions of lives
should be something we can all agree on
maybe you've actually made some kind of
resolution to try and be more
sustainable this year
or maybe your goals are more about you
as a person
and you'd like to pick up some new
skills still being stuck mostly inside
is the perfect time to work on that plan
we've partnered with skillshare an
online learning community
that offers thousands of classes for all
skill levels in tons of creative skills
like illustration
animation or film and video
but you could also dive into classes
about productivity
growing houseplants or interior design
all perfect for making your time at home
more enjoyable
and learning something new you get
unlimited access to all classes for less
than ten dollars a month with an annual
premium membership
and the first one thousand quotes
viewers to click the link in the
description
will get a free trial and if you can't
decide which class to take
maybe get started with something super
practical like learning how to best
approach your creative process
we liked productivity for creatives
build a system that brings out your best
by thomas frank but whatever makes you
feel good and gives you new ideas is
worth a try
if you want to get creative with new
skills and support klutzkazak
give it a go
[Music]
you